We have
two new methods in modern JavaScript called very and sum.
Very useful methods, so here we have our numbers array,
let's imagine we want to check and see if all numbers in this array
are positive. So, we call numbers
.every and here we pass a
callback function. Here in the intellisence, you can see this callback function
has three parameters. Value, which is a number,
because here we have an array of numbers. Index, which is the
index of this value and the array, and again, that's a number,
and finally the array itself. Now when writing this function you don't have
to add all these parameters, you can only add ones you need,
for example, here I'm going to add the function and I'm only going to
add one parameter, value, because I don't care about the index,
of these elements, so, we pass
this callback function, and in this function we can check to see if this
value is a positive number. So, we return
value, greater than or equal to zero. If
this expression evalues to true, we'll return true, otherwise we'll return false.
Now finally, this method will return a
boolean, so we can store it in the constant called
allPositive. So when we call this method, this is what's going to happen
this method will run this function on every
element in this array, as soon as it finds an element
that doesn't match this criteria, it's going to stop searching.
Let me show you. So, let's log all
positive on the console. You can see it's true on the console, because
every element, our every number in this array is a positive number.
However, if I add -1 here,
we get false, and basically as soon as
we hit this number, the search will terminate, so
if you have a million other numbers in this array, this every method is not
going to call this callback function on those numbers.
Now we have a similar method called sum, and that checks to
see if we have at least one element in this array that
matches this criteria. So if I replace every with
some, and save the changes, we're going to see true.
However, I'm going to change the name of this variable, because this is distracting
so always pay great attention to the name of your variables and
functions, make sure they're explaining the right thing. So press F2,
and rename this to atLeastOne
Positive. Okay? Save the changes,
we get true, so this some method will run this
callback function on every element in this array. As soon as it finds
an element that matches this criteria, it's going to return true
and the search will terminate. So, in the current example
if we have a million numbers in this array, because the first number
matches this criteria, this call back function will be executed only
on this first element. So it doesn't matter what we have after
the first element. So, to recap, every
checks to see if every element in a given array matches the given
criteria, and some checks to see if we have at least
one element that matches the given criteria. Just to let you know,
these methods are new in JavaScript, so some older browsers
do not support this, but later in the course I'm going to explain
how to bring these methods in older browsers.